>> Kyle Simpson: Here's a different usage.
You've probably seen
functions used as values,
here I'm returning a function back.
So I have this function called addAnother,
which takes in z as an input.
Now it's not a constant
in the global scope.
It's a parameter that is passed in.
And you'll notice on line seven, this
little strange thing that's happening is
that when I call out another
the first time with the value one,
that gets assigned to the z parameter, and
I get back an addTwo function
that is referencing z, right.
And then I execute that function
that came back, which we know here
to be called addTwo, I execute that
with the second set of parentheses.
They're in line seven.
That second set of parentheses is
executing that inner function that got
returned back, and
when that function runs, it is
referencing a variable outside of itself.
That variable was not declared
with a const, it's a parameter.
But what's interesting about this code
that was not true of the previous slide,
is that this code, has a smaller surface
area that we need to worry about,
with respect to whether z
gets reassigned or not.
If we wanna ask ourselves is z in effect
a constant, there are only two lines that
we need to concern ourselves with, line
one and a half and line two and a half.
They are the only two lines in the entire
program that could possibly re-assign z.
>> Kyle Simpson: Do you see the difference
between that and the previous slide,
where there were 11 lines that could
have theoretically have reassigned z?
But because of the structure
of this program,
I've reduced the surface area
where reassignment could occur.
And as a result of
reducing the surface area,
my argument is we're
increasing readability.
We are increasing the confidence for
the reader of this code
that when they see z passed in as one,
they know it stays as one from then on.
You with me?
You had a question, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
would this be considered currying?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's a great question
and we are gonna get to currying.
So the question if you didn't hear it was,
is this currying?
It is in effect a partial
application of a value,
which you could also label as currying.
But we wanna dig into that topic more, so
hold on to that question
till we get to that.
But yes, we are providing some input now,
remembering that input until later.
And that is in the general
scheme of things, yes,
partial application AKA currying.
All right, so our inner function using
that z variable, by the way int is using
closure to do that, we'll come back to
closure in our next section of discussion.
By remembering and using a z variable that
doesn't change, it's in effect a constant.
And therefore, both the outer function
call the one with the first parentheses
set, and the inner function,
the one that is executed with the second
parentheses set, line seven,
both of those function calls are pure.
>> Kyle Simpson: That is to say, they
have the predictability that we need and
expect out of pure functions.